[THEME MUSIC]
>> Hello.
I'm Rees Jones.
And welcome to module 5--
practicing MILD daily.
MILD is a type of lucid
dreaming induction technique.
Induction techniques
are, in essence,
ways to trigger a lucid dream.
Some are long and complicated.
Others are short and simple.
Some are designed to get you
lucid whilst in the dream.
And others are designed
to transition you directly
into the dream.
Lucid from the offset, with
no break in consciousness.
Over the years, scientists
and teachers and enthusiasts
alike have all created variants
of these induction techniques,
but one stands head and
shoulders above them all.
In fact, in my estimation,
it's really the only induction
technique you'll ever need.
MILD, which stands for
Mnemonic Initiated Lucid Dream,
was created by lucid dreaming
pioneer, Stephen LaBerge,
during his dissertation
research in 1980,
as a way to more regularly and
reliably induce lucid dreaming.
It hinges on the idea of
perspective memory, which
is the type of memory we use
to remind ourselves to do stuff
in the future.
We all know how this works.
We use it all the time
in our day-to-day lives,
like when we remind ourselves to
pick something up at the store
tomorrow, or when we remind
ourselves to call someone back
on the phone that evening.
And so by harnessing this
already familiar skill,
we can redirect it towards
our lucid dreaming practice,
and in turn, increase our
lucid dreaming frequency.
Within MILD prospective memory
technique lies the three R's--
rescript, rehearse, and remind.
The first R, rescript, is
exactly what it sounds like.
You take the memory of a
dream you've already had
and reimagine its contents.
You start by choosing a point
in the dream which you now
recognize as a dream sign.
Perhaps you saw a dead relative
or talked to an animal,
for example.
Then at that critical point,
rescript your response
to the dream sign.
Perhaps you think, oh, yes,
of course, this is a dream.
And then rescript the rest
of the dream from there
what might have looked
like if you'd carried on
in the dream lucidly.
Be creative with
your rescripting.
The second R is rehearse.
Rehearsing involves visualizing
the rescripting, which
you may have already
been doing, but if not,
now's the opportunity to really
conjure up a mental image.
Lead yourself through the
dream, imagining all the details
as you go.
Getting to the
moment the dream sign
appears, recognizing
the dream sign,
and then unraveling the rest
of the adventure from that.
Try to really feel into
this mental imagery.
Immerse yourself
in it, experiencing
all there is to experience.
The third and final R is remind.
Reminding is where the
prospective memory trick really
kicks in.
Tell yourself that the
next time you're dreaming,
you'll recognize the
dream as a dream,
and become lucid either through
recognizing the dream sign you
just laid out in the rescripting
and rehearsing phases
or perhaps in some
different way.
Maybe you won't need
a dream sign at all,
and you'll just become
spontaneously lucid.
Either way, set a firm
reminder inside your mind
that in your next
dream, you will become
lucid one way or another.
So that's MILD in a nutshell.
But when should you
practice all of this?
Is there a prime time?
Well, typically, people
practice during the night
after waking up
directly from a dream.
For example, you might
prop yourself up in bed
for a couple of minutes,
going through the three R's
before returning to sleep.
As I said, preferably, you'll
be rescripting and rehearsing
a dream you just woke up from.
But if you don't have any
recall in that precise moment,
don't worry.
Just rescript and rehearse
another recent dream
you remember.
Practicing MILD
in between dreams
like this is undoubtedly
a perfect time to do it,
but don't be fooled
into thinking that this
is the only viable time.
Just like all lucid
dreaming practices,
this becomes a way of life
after a while, rather than
a mere fleeting fancy.
So if you're looking for
true lucid dreaming mastery,
consider implementing
MILD on and off
throughout your entire day.
But what does that sort
of regular practice
look like in reality?
Well, here's a
suggested routine.
Check in with yourself
every hour or two.
First, performing
a reality check.
And then reminding
yourself that you'll
have great recall that
night and lucid dreams too.
Also, during quiet
moments, perhaps
during lunch or a
toilet break, you
can run through the
mental exercises too.
Imagine a recent
non-lucid dream you had.
Rescript it, rehearse
it, and remind yourself
that exactly this
will play out soon.
Another potent time to practice
MILD is upon getting into bed,
just before going to sleep.
First, set your intention
to remember your dreams.
Then apply the three
R's as per usual--
rescript, rehearse, and remind.
And let the final R--
remind-- be the very last
thing you have in your head
as you drift off to sleep.
Perhaps you could
even experiment
with falling asleep to a
silent internal mantra--
tonight, I'll
recognize I'm dreaming.
Tonight, I'll
Another good time to target
is upon final awakening
in the morning.
Wake up, reality check to ensure
it's not a false awakening,
log your dreams, and then from
there, apply the three R's--
rescript, rehearse, and remind.
After this, you could even
return to your dream journal
and log the rescripted dream.
Anything you can do to instill
this new lucid narrative
inside your mind will
be an effective tool.
Be meticulous and consistent
with these MILD drills.
Just like any habit, you have
to engage with it consistently
to truly instill it.
So make sure you keep on coming
back multiple times a day.
Never rushing through it
just to get it over with.
Noticing all the subtle
details as you go.
Keep on practicing like this.
And before you know it, through
the technique-- that is MILD--
you'll be having
regular lucid dreams.